on the end of this poll is a highly
directional microphone and put that into
the water and we should be able to hear
the sperm whale Andrew Armour has worked
with whales for over 20 years he can
pick out the faintest of cause their
course can travel over 30 miles and
there are several distinct types I do
hear it now have they pointed out this
kind of call is known as coda and sperm
whales use it for communication so this
is almost certainly a group
this is my chance to get up close to
these Giants
okay get it now get it now I've joined a
baby and an adult female
female sperm whales live in family
groups up to 20 strong
the rest of this part could well be
hunting far the Loess youngsters can't
dive deep so this babysitter has stayed
at the surface it could be mum an aunt
or even grandma
she's playing with me mirroring my
movements
as she dives she swings past my
cameraman
that tail has the force to power a giant
it could easily kill a human yet she
takes care not to hit either of us
it's a remarkable display of agility
the whales are just as fascinated with
me as I am with them it's a far cry from
the meetings between our species in the
days of whaling I am absolutely shaking
like a leaf
she brought her calf right alongside us
span over onto her side so that she was
looking directly in my eyes from no more
than a couple of metres away and then
she Pierrot netted like a ballerina and
swept past me but she made so sure that
she didn't hit me